README.md, before:

#  Password Manager App

## Features

- User registration and login
- Store, view, edit, and delete passwords
- Password generator
- Recycle bin for deleted passwords
- Settings for account management

## Tech Stack

- Frontend: HTML, CSS, JavaScript
- Backend: Node.js, Express
- Database: SQLite

## Folder Structure

```
frontend/
  assets/
  css/
  js/
  pages/
backend/
  src/
    db/
    middleware/
    routes/
    sessions/
  package.on
  sessions/
```

## Database Overview

This app uses **SQLite** (`backend/src/db/pm_db.db`) to store all data.

**Tables:**
- **users:** Stores user accounts (`id`, `email`, `password`).
- **passwords:** Stores saved passwords for each user (`id`, `user_id`, `service`, `email`, `password`).
- **deletedPasswords:** Stores deleted passwords (recycle bin) for each user (`id`, `user_id`, `deletedService`, `deletedEmail`, `deletedPassword`).
- **notifications:** Stores notifications for each user (`id`, `user_id`, `title`, `content`).

**How it works:**
- Each password, deleted password, and notification is linked to a user by `user_id`.
- If a user is deleted, all their passwords, deleted passwords, and notifications are automatically removed (cascade delete).
- The database and tables are created automatically when you run the backend—no manual setup needed.

## Getting Started

1. **Clone the repo:**
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/CarlBaines/ReallyGoodPasswordManager.git
   cd ReallyGoodPasswordManager/backend/src
   ```

2. **Install backend dependencies:**
   ```sh
   npm install
   ```

3. **Start the backend server:**
   ```sh
   npm start
   ```

4. **Open the frontend:**
   - Open `frontend/pages/loginpg.html` directly in your browser,  
     **or** use a simple HTTP server (like VS Code Live Server) for a better experience.

> The backend will automatically create the SQLite database and tables if they don’t exist. No extra setup is needed!
## Credits

Created by [CarlBaines](https://github.com/CarlBaines).

Special thanks to my friend [Luke Eastwood](https://github.com/LukeEastwood080506), who worked with me on this project. Although he left the project mid-way, he was the inspiration and coder behind much of the main dashboard page.

## Screenshots

**Login Page**

<img width="1918" height="947" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/69064a91-2f3c-40ef-be83-8c88a496a3c6" />

**Sign Up Page**

<img width="1918" height="945" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/01b0b638-4695-4122-8198-d1642c0a8042" />

**Forgot Password Page**

<img width="1918" height="944" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/456501d4-f430-4937-b56b-dfb49116d91c" />

**Main Page**

<img width="1918" height="946" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/76f770c4-24eb-4b39-b443-379e4774ff52" />

**Example of Notifications**

<img width="435" height="658" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bd977cc0-74f4-4f96-807f-71d1458c5e29" />

**Example of Saved Vault Record**

<img width="1226" height="291" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e7cba70c-d524-4bec-ac68-6a8fd29e2b99" />

**Generator Page**

<img width="1918" height="944" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b58dffbc-2d3f-483c-80e2-e3468f2fa488" />

**Recycle Bin Page**

<img width="1919" height="944" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/04342ae7-9371-4590-909a-a95c5b615eb4" />

**Example of Saved Recycle Bin Record**

<img width="1230" height="251" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/11fc6ffe-3c52-4e0a-a97c-b0d3b45cb437" />

**Settings Page**

<img width="1918" height="944" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/56364d9d-d795-4d36-a50f-562ac7f9d8a5" />

## Demo
https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8f475e20-7e35-4890-8594-d05ebfad5b4f

Commit message:

RGPM v1.02
Improved environment variable loading in app.js by resolving the .env path. Updated README to clarify environment variable setup steps and adjusted backend setup instructions for better clarity.

README.md, after:

#  Password Manager App

## Features

- User registration and login
- Store, view, edit, and delete passwords
- Password generator
- Recycle bin for deleted passwords
- Settings for account management

## Tech Stack

- Frontend: HTML, CSS, JavaScript
- Backend: Node.js, Express
- Database: SQLite

## Folder Structure

```
frontend/
  assets/
  css/
  js/
  pages/
backend/
  src/
    db/
    middleware/
    routes/
    sessions/
  package.on
  sessions/
```

## Database Overview

This app uses **SQLite** (`backend/src/db/pm_db.db`) to store all data.

**Tables:**
- **users:** Stores user accounts (`id`, `email`, `password`).
- **passwords:** Stores saved passwords for each user (`id`, `user_id`, `service`, `email`, `password`).
- **deletedPasswords:** Stores deleted passwords (recycle bin) for each user (`id`, `user_id`, `deletedService`, `deletedEmail`, `deletedPassword`).
- **notifications:** Stores notifications for each user (`id`, `user_id`, `title`, `content`).

**How it works:**
- Each password, deleted password, and notification is linked to a user by `user_id`.
- If a user is deleted, all their passwords, deleted passwords, and notifications are automatically removed (cascade delete).
- The database and tables are created automatically when you run the backend—no manual setup needed.

## Getting Started

1. **Clone the repo:**
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/CarlBaines/ReallyGoodPasswordManager.git
   cd ReallyGoodPasswordManager/backend/src
   ```

2. **Configure environment variables:**
   - Copy `example.env` to `.env` in the project root directory.
   - Open `.env` and set your `SESSION_SECRET` to a random, secure value. Example:
     ```env
     SESSION_SECRET=your_random_secure_secret
     HOST=127.0.0.1
     PORT=6969
     ```

3. **Install backend dependencies:**
   ```sh
   npm install
   ```

4. **Start the backend server:**
   ```sh
   npm start
   ```

5. **Open the frontend:**
   - Open `frontend/pages/loginpg.html` directly in your browser,  
     **or** use a simple HTTP server (like VS Code Live Server) for a better experience.

> The backend will automatically create the SQLite database and tables if they don’t exist. No extra setup is needed!
## Credits

Created by [CarlBaines](https://github.com/CarlBaines).

Special thanks to my friend [Luke Eastwood](https://github.com/LukeEastwood080506), who worked with me on this project. Although he left the project mid-way, he was the inspiration and coder behind much of the main dashboard page.

## Screenshots

**Login Page**

<img width="1918" height="947" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/69064a91-2f3c-40ef-be83-8c88a496a3c6" />

**Sign Up Page**

<img width="1918" height="945" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/01b0b638-4695-4122-8198-d1642c0a8042" />

**Forgot Password Page**

<img width="1918" height="944" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/456501d4-f430-4937-b56b-dfb49116d91c" />

**Main Page**

<img width="1918" height="946" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/76f770c4-24eb-4b39-b443-379e4774ff52" />

**Example of Notifications**

<img width="435" height="658" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bd977cc0-74f4-4f96-807f-71d1458c5e29" />

**Example of Saved Vault Record**

<img width="1226" height="291" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e7cba70c-d524-4bec-ac68-6a8fd29e2b99" />

**Generator Page**

<img width="1918" height="944" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b58dffbc-2d3f-483c-80e2-e3468f2fa488" />

**Recycle Bin Page**

<img width="1919" height="944" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/04342ae7-9371-4590-909a-a95c5b615eb4" />

**Example of Saved Recycle Bin Record**

<img width="1230" height="251" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/11fc6ffe-3c52-4e0a-a97c-b0d3b45cb437" />

**Settings Page**

<img width="1918" height="944" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/56364d9d-d795-4d36-a50f-562ac7f9d8a5" />

## Demo
https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8f475e20-7e35-4890-8594-d05ebfad5b4f
